# PhenotypeSimulator
PhenotypeSimulator allows for the flexible simulation of phenotypes from genetic and noise components. In quantitative genetics, genotype to phenotype mapping is commonly realised by fitting a linear model to the genotype as the explanatory variable and the phenotype as the response variable. Other explanatory variable such as additional sample measures (e.g. age, height, weight) or batch effects can also be included. For linear mixed models, in addition to the fixed effects of the genotype and the covariates, different random effect components can be included, accounting for population structure in the study cohort or environmental effects. The application of linear and linear mixed models in quantitive genetics ranges from genetic studies in model organism such as yeast and arabidopsis thaliana to human molecular, morphological or imaging derived traits. Developing new methods for increasing numbers of sample cohorts, phenotypic measurements or complexity of phenotypes to analyse, often requires the simulation of datasets with a specific underlying phenotype structure. These include for instance genetic fixed effects and correlated noise effect, genetic fixed effects and noise background (bg) effects, genetic fixed + bg effects and noise bg effects or genetic fixed + bg effects abd noise bg effects.

PhenotypeSimulator allows for the simulation of such phenotypes under different models, including fixed and background genetic effects as well as correlated, fixed and background noise effects. Different phenotypic effects can be combined into a final phenotype while controling for the proportion of variance explained by each of the components. For each component, the number of variables, their distribution and the design of their effect across traits can be customised. 
